---
layout: post
title: "Increasing skill floor instead of skill ceiling"
date: 2026-01-15
---

One interesting change that has resulted in decent LP gains for me has been more of a mindset shift than any specific mechanical difference. For a long time, I thought that between me and higher elo players, there were massive skill differences like insane mechanical gaps, junglers ten steps ahead in macro chess, or crazy teamfighting abilities. But as I'm climbing, I feel that the rising skill level is not due to people being unimaginably better at piloting their champion; instead, players are just better at not making stupid choices. Eliminating stupid risks has easily been the #1 differentiator in my recent games.

I find this really interesting to experience on the ground as opposed to only being able to read Redditors saying "The number one skill to climb is consistency". Like, what **exactly** is becoming more consistent, and how can I play like that? I think it's really interesting to see what they mean by consistency and to feel the additional pressure that results from such consistency. Some observations:

1. Players are mechanically better. They are definitely very good at their champions + knowing matchups, and don't throw out abilities needlessly anymore. In general, they actually get value out of their abilities, and play lanes/teamfights more precisely. 

2. Players are more willing to play from behind. I think most people at this point enjoy the game and know that comebacks are extremely possible, so there is definitely more consistency in mentality (not to say that babyragers and ff15+inters don't exist).

3. Not as many mistakes made by enemies. This not to say that there aren't any - I know that this is still plat elo and everyone is shit and no one knows how to play the game, but at least given my knowledge of the game, I am not seeing as many glaring gameplay mistakes that are easily punished. Before, many players would walk alone to establish vision and get caught, or they would always overextend while sidelaning, and this would often be less than a minute before objectives which gave my team full control. Now, players are not making as many risks with such obvious downsides.

The upshot to me is that winning doesn't come from superhuman mechanical outplays; it just comes from minimizing losing plays/risks and maximizing your team's win probability by playing for your wincon. Everyone is generally better at identifying the decisions that achieve that objective.

But this also means that more creativity is required to beat teams that have ironed out most of their stupid mistakes, and seeing this in game has been extraordinarily fun to play against. Playing against better players that really make you strategize has made this game infinitely more fun, and I'm excited to see how well I can fare, now that the game is starting to make sense.